[http://opensource.flaptor.com/clusterfest http://opensource.flaptor.com/clusterfest/images/logo.png]

= Modules available for Clusterfest =

= Monitor Module=

The Monitor module helps easily monitor nodes and detect problems in those nodes. It works in two phases:

 * the server requests properties to the nodes (properties, logs and systemproperties)
 * the server runs a checker to determine the state of the node

This state can be visually seen as a dashboard in the clusterfest webapp. Also you can check these properties and past states for each node.

== Checkers ==

Checkers are associated with node types in the {{{clustering.properties}}} file. For type {{{NODE_TYPE}}}

{{{
clustering.monitor.checker.NODE_TYPE=somePackage.NodeTypeCheckerClassName
}}}

{{{somePackage.NodeTypeCheckerClassName}}} must be an implementation of the {{{NodeChecker}}} interface and have an empty constructor.

= Control Module =

The control module allows you to start, pause, resume, stop and kill nodes.

To start and kill nodes, the module sends a command via SSH to execute start.sh and stop.sh in the node install dir. This obviously works on unix-like systems only. If the private/public key pair is not properly setup to allow password-less access from the server to the node machine, this will fail.

Pause, resume and stop are sent through the controllable interface via RPC.

= Action Module=

This module enables you to send actions to the nodes. Actions consist of an action name and action parameters. It is an abstract module, you must define an interface to use it and also subclass the node code to do something with the actions received. 

[home]